I am Haile Selassie. Born in 1892 in Ejersa
Goro, Ethiopia. I was the emperor of Ethiopia
whose influence as an African leader far
surpassed the confines of my country.
I am the nephew of Emperor Menilek II. I spent
my youth at the imperial court of Addis Ababa,
where I learned much about the exercise of power.
The emperor no doubt recognized my capacity
for hard work and my mastery of detail when
he appointed me, at the age of 20, as the
commander of the extensive province of Sidamo.
When Emperor Menilek died, his grandson,
Yasu, succeeded to the throne. Yasu's apparent
conversion to Islam gave impetus to the opposition
movement that I led in deposing Yasu in 1916.
The daughter of emperor Menilek became
empress, and I became heir to the throne.
After the empress' death, I
became the new Ethiopian emperor.
I attempted thoroughly to modernize Ethiopia, but
my efforts were cut short when Mussolini's Italy
invaded the country in 1935. The ensuing
Fascist occupation marked the first loss
of national independence in recorded Ethiopian
history. In 1936 I went into exile in England.
In early 1941 British expeditionary forces,
aided by the heroic Ethiopian resistance,
liberated the country. Throughout the
next decade, I rebuilt the administration,
improved the army, passed legislation to regulate
the government, church, and financial system.
The next decade involved an uneasy coalition
of conservative and reforming forces.
I continued to hold the political balance
between several major politicians and the
recurrent frustration of many reformists
that eventually led to a failed coup in 1960.
In 1963, the newly founded Organization of African
Unity established its headquarters in Addis Ababa,
and I became increasingly
involved with foreign affairs.
A famine in Wello province
forced me to abdicate in 1974
and I died the next year. Always be yourself,
express yourself, have faith in yourself,
do not go out and look for a successful
personality and duplicate it. I worked to
make Ethiopia a torch of hope and prosperity
and I pray it is shining brighter every day.